Monitoring??

Concentrate on alarms
CPU, memory Monitoring


Analysis of logs, metrics (cpu utilization)...

Observing the system performance...

it can help us trace the cause of the issues...

------------------------------------------------------
Observability:
- metrics (typical monitoring) - CPU, Memory, Disk Storage, Iops
e.g.: Nagios (OS / Enterprise), Zabbix (OS / Enterprise), Solarwinds (Enterprise)

Question: 
Linux: 
    top / htop command for cpu & memory
    w for showing current load
    df -h for disk Storage
    vmstat / iostat 
    free -m/h for RAM

Alerts when: if CPU is more than 90% email

Open Source: Nagios, Zabbix, Prometheus and Grafana
Cloud Based Monitoring tools: AWS CloudWatch, Azure Monitor
Enterprise Monitoring tools: DataDog, Splunk, Dynatrace, NewRelic, AppDynamics, logzio, Solarwinds, tivoli, zepkins floath

- logs -

I have 10 servers on which my app is running...

I got to know that an error has occurred in my app and the users are facing some issues...

the standard metrics are not reporting any kind of anomalies meaning CPU, Memory and Storage are all in line

How will you troubleshoot this issue now?
- Check the logs, what logs (application logs)
e.g.: I will go to the folder wherein my logs of the app is stored... I will open that log file and start reading for error that is occuring..

- Do you expect that during an event wherein my users are facing issues.. I have time to ssh into 10 servers and then find error in the logs files of those 10 servers...

First on the enterprise space: Splunk
On the Open Source Space: ELK (ElasticSearch, LogStash, Kibana and filebeat) now they call it as Elastic Stack


- traces / APM (Application performance Monitoring): Primarily developed to understand the performance of the application and then enhance it..

you are order food in Zomato.. to searched cakes and it took around 1 sec to list down the shops which sell cakes.. whereas it should have taken some milli-seconds

AppDynamics which is now a cisco company
NewRelic


---------

In terms of Kubernetes env: the basic monitoring, logging and tracing was challenging...

Prometheus and Grafana

--- Kubernetes env are dynamic in nature...

In my Kubernetes cluster I can have 3 worker nodes now and tomorrow I will have 5

My pods in K8S are ephemeral in nature..

TSDB (Time Series Database)
-- Time Series format: 

if you are monitoring via Nagios: you configure in Nagios that alert me when the CPU cross 90%... and you say check that in every 1 min

- In every 1 min, it will run the command to check the current CPU metrics and will compare it will the threshold defined - either send an email or skip

whereas if you do the same thing from Prometheus / CloudWatch...

Every min, they will capture the CPU usage and then store an entry inside their TSDB with following format:
17:49 - 20% - aryan-laptop
